Timeteo opened his eyes. It was a dream. Or a vision? Is there any difference?

He blinked slowly, looking around him. The slow languid pulses of the crystals hummed comfortably, supporting his awareness in a low energetic calm. The vast expanse of the glowing cavern seemed infinite, and outside of time. This startling white perfection could exist in no place, and yet... it was rooted in a place. A place that had become suddenly vulnerable.

The unthinkable: the tranquility broken. 

Timeteo shook his head. How was he so certain? Part of him knew something that the rest of his mind had not caught up to. He felt the disaster, knowing it so deeply while at the same time knowing nothing of the details. But he knew.

The hum of the crystals, the life essence of countless brothers and sisters who had passed from this world of illusion and merged into the pool of true reality. His connection with them temporarily broken. How long had he been in trance? He could not know, and in a way it did not matter. This moment however arrested him. 

A sensation that was wholly unfamiliar gripped him. A pinprick of sweat emerged on his furrowed brow. He finally recognized it as fear. As deep and bottomless as a dark abyss. What has happening? How could anything of the physical realm be so significant as to arouse this reaction?

And then he saw it. The perfection dimmed. A tension, then a crackling. A shard sliced through the fabric of purity, rending a tapestry that he had assumed inviolable. 

The icy crystalline tinkling of shards tumbling down the wall. He looked straight at it. Brother Gans, one of the eldest known, his achievements in physical life a foundation for the transcendental existence of everyone who followed, shattered into countless pieces. A moment of stillness, space itself taut with anticipation. Then the entire cavern dimmed, while at the same time the humming grew higher in pitch. An accelerating crescendo. The intensity shook Timeteo to his core.

The cavern could not falter. Its energies were supplied directly from the beating heart of the Sun itself. The union between this cavern and the atomic furnace of their star was inseparable. There could be no interruption, unless...

The shattering roar overtook him with suddenness, as he watched his ancestors shatter and crumble around him. The deafening sound of shards upon life shards became a new kind of silence. And he knew. 

The Sun was failing.