Leo Bansé's fingers spun over the holographic keys. The serenity of his gaze was in opposition to the smoldering drive of his work. The data never ceased. It was like a river, a torrent that flowed over and through him, spiraling down the elaborate funnel he had painstakingly constructed over the centuries into a cascading network of models and repositories. His models were like quenchless plants whose roots fed on data, drew every mote of data up their throbbing roots and unfurled in flowers of predictions and visual expression.

So much of the data served only to reinforce his predictions, honed sharp like the blade of some ancient sword, cleaving uncertainty into perfect channels of the known. Every anomaly was instantly identified and focused in on, forming a kind of mossy spackle over the thick currents of expectation. He thrived on these anomalies, because each anomaly, each bit out of place was a clue to some greater order, a larger pattern that lie tantalizingly out of reach, just waiting to be discovered.

How many times he had woven the seemingly isolated outliers into a tapestry of insight. How many times his startling conclusions, borne out by datum from across several ages shocked his contemporaries, then were ultimately absorbed into the obvious and background assumptions of his culture. 

Tonight events were flowing effortlessly. The merging streams of economic, industrial, cultural, political, physical and artistic data were dancing their intricate dance, calming and nourishing him. His models pulsed in a global heartbeat, chanting their narrative of society and world. He smiled slightly as he became aware of himself, a nexus in the flow of all things. He loved his job.

Then, an alert. Small, yet stubborn. Something did not fit. A tiny sliver of red in a sea of cool blue. His attention bolted to the new fact. It was energetic, a hiccup in the pipeline that fed his world. Odd, the flow of energy is usually so steady as to be entirely unnoticed. Its dynamics are measured in decades, not moments. A faulty sensor? Yet the sensors were self-healing, and hyper-redundant. It would have to be a network of sensors malfunctioning. 

And there again. Bigger this time. What could cause that? It was almost unprecedented. Almost, since there had been rebellions. Rebellions simply to rebel, when rebellion was a fad, centuries ago. A priveleged rebellion. But those outages were isolated, and quickly absorbed. There are too many systems watching each other for homeostasis to be disrupted for long.

Then: a staggering drop. A drop so deep, and so sudden, his own systems flickered for a moment. Impossible. 

In a quick pang, he scanned his repositories. All up. No data was harmed. That happy fact established, he reared after the cause. In lightning speed he traced the disruption to its source. A confluence of factors all aligned, suddenly pointing to the ultimate source. The source of all things. 

The Sun. The energy transmission network had been shaken. The very origin of power for all the worlds. The one constant in the ever shifting and ever evolving dynamics of biological life. 

Then, it was dark. And Leo howled in a pain he had never known. His eyes were gone, and he found himself a simple mortal in a simple room. An individual in a blackness bereft of data.