Astaxas penetrated the layers of distance. It was happening. He signalled the preparations complete, and gestured to the flocks of Nurtopians hovering nearby to cast into action.

The greed of the inner worlds had finally come to fruition. Their blind extraction of critical solar structuralities had been weakening the fabric of the Sun for centuries. The Sun was robust, and its methods of self-healing vast and cataclysmic, but they had been slowly dismantled over these many cycles. Systematically isolated from one another, screw by screw, until it stood as a sliced melon, draining of life. Countless tiny suns with no connection to one another. No flow of the great energies, the beating infernal heart sectioned into buzzing, angry cubes.

The current state was just the most palpable demonstration of a decree set into motion long ago.

Among the meteorites they had known for a long time, and they had been preparing. Now, action was called for. Like the coil of a long bow, strung taut over decades of coordinated action, it snapped its arrow of purpose towards the Sun. 

Astaxas allowed himself a small smile as he considered the reactions of the inner worlds to their sudden appearance. Most had only academic interest in the rest of the solar system, and weak interest at that. They had all turned inwards long ago, finding their own forms of satisfaction supplied by those boundless powers provided by their servile star (little did they admit to themselves what a monster they were foolishly wrestling with). Did any of them even suspect of the meteorites might be populated? Was there any registry that still told of the expeditions sent out here centuries before that never returned, never sent word? Was there any curiousity remaining for the fates of those seemingly doomed volunteers who still maintained some spark of appetite for exploration and discovery?

Most likely not. Most likely, it would be a complete surprise. And why not? Who thought people could live in direct vacuum, in the shadow of their star? Who could have guessed at the richness that lie waiting to be uncovered beneath the cold, lifeless exterior of the meteoric swarms?

But thrived they had out here, fueled by the vacuum, reared by the fabric of space itself. They found energies the inner worlds had never dreamt of latent in that mysterious substance that was no substance. They had drank it into their veins, and their eyes had attuned to the wavelengths of the cosmos, wavelengths a world-dwelling being had no use of.

The meteor was a hive of purpose now, and he relished the coming age. A break with the solar system, a completion of the independence they had embarked on so long ago. They were as an egg, poised to crack and spill their vitality across the empty, fertile geometry of eternity. 

"Send the harvesters" he sang, and the space behind him came alive.

