Deepak gazed out into the torrid distance. The empurpled waves of their great ocean lapped against his feet, a microcosm of waves upon waves stretching out to the farthest horizon. There was a resonance within him, his own eyes and heart rising and falling in synchrony with the marine world before him. 

Behind him stretched countless figures, gathered here at the edge between land and sea to honor him. Their robes waved also, a harmonic above the ocean, so the land itself became a reflection of the sea. It was his day to decide. 

The Sun was low, parallel to the land. Its rays crested and played upon the endless waves, dancing like children, a carefree expression of the fundamental energies that gave form to all things.

Deepak gazed outward. The anticipation leading up to this day drained away from him, and the immediacy of his decision came into stark contrast to the usual long arcs of events on their watery world. There are points when history pivots, and what was imagined becomes what has occurred. 

In the custom of his people, he had not made the decision beforehand. He had practiced all of the disciplines of anticipation, of withholding certainty, of embracing the potential for any outcome. It was deep in his fabric that decisions were sacred things, and in a way decided themselves, if the person could stay out of their way and let them unfold as they would. 

The waves lifted, and an impossible network of domes emerged from their surface. At first these domes were tiny disruptions on the surface, but inexorably grew and rose until their immensity was revealed. Then, at once, each dome sprouted eyes, and a thousand thousand fountains of water and air were released into the sky, a canopy of spouting. 

The eldars had come.

From behind Deepak came a wall of tones as all of his people cried out at once. It was exaltation and beauty and majesty embodied. He was moved, and felt the waves within him churn with the power of it. He cried out in chorus with them, not even voluntary, but torn from him in an overwhelming force of emotional current.

The tones rose, and were met with the tones from the sea, imponderably deeper. The eldars had joined their chorus.

The decision within himself bloomed like a flower, petals unfurling upon petals, each an eye beholding his future. He was going to the sea. 

The tones cradled his opening mind in a swath of joy.

And at that moment, a flash from the sky. His people, land and sea, cried out, the tones babbling into chaos. Those profound domes vanished suddenly into the waves. And he didn't know it immediately, but the Sun had made a different choice.

He was going to the sky.