Quile looked down into the unfathomable. All around him pulsed the ponderous passage of great jellyfish as he and his companions hovered in anticipation. The tones struck one after the other, emanating strongly down into that unseeable vastness. Quile sung with it, an ancient song he barely understood. It was an old song, from a great and respected eldar of the deep. It told of a great world-wrenching tragedy, so old it seemed impossible how congruent it was to the current conditions of their lives now.

After some unknown time they saw shapes emerge from the deep and rise imperceptibly. Quile and his companions glanced nervously at one another, then regained their composure. The eldars were answering.

It took some time for them to rise sufficiently. Quile's group did not descend further to meet them. They had arrived at the depth which expressed respect, questioning, and possibly even pleading. Every depth sent a message in the eldar language, every depth a mode of expression to them. 

As the eldars approached equilibrium Quile was struck by their massive presence. Down here, it made sense for something to be as large and unknowable as the body of an ancient eldar. It was his own impossible smallness that seemed out of place here.

Quile held motionless under the eldars' scrutiny. He remained open and calm, letting his very existence be a message that he knew the eldars would be able to read. So much was said by his presence alone, the ensuing message was almost entirely superfluous.

After a great deal of time, one of the eldars spoke. "We are not leaving," came the aqueous rumble. "We are this world." 

"Most honored, surely..." But his appeal was swallowed by the wailing tones of the eldar pod. These rose and fell in anguishing resonance. No question or thought could survive this onslaught.

Quile did not leave. He held there, catching on to the nature of their tune and then raising his own voice aside them. It merged into the fabric of singing that filled the depths as Quile himself was merged with the song.

He was shocked to return to his own awareness, as the eldar who spoke before did so again. But he was changed.

"We will send three."

Any response was obliterated by the rising chorus from below.