Idgi Baba gazed upon her happy world. The endless babble of a thousand streams bathed her in mirth. The riot of a thousand spiraling perspectives grew from the trunk of her mind like a thousand joyous branches. She was splashing and laughing and singing and opening in a thousand different ways, and all of them were fed by the streams of the others.

This was a special time, in anticipation of the great gathering. She had been in communication with the neighboring communal awarenesses and the preparations had come finally to fullness. Nothing was rushed, but also nothing was lost. A primal focus aligned the countless tendrils of her mind into a great collective action, now driving towards the ancient grove where she would meet and merge with her global companions. If history was any indication, the merging may last for years, and when at last the minds separated again they would not even have the same identity as before. The composition and orientation of the thousands of members would have shifted, and a new paradigm would travel outwards. 

As the gathering coalesced, the Dark Events slowly made themselves known. The Darkness was undeniable, an unassailable presence that shadowed their jubilance and shook their cavorting festival. Many stood silent, a sobering profundity percolating through the rhizomic body of their collective perception. 

Idgi Baba was the first to speak. The words came tumbling from a thousand mouths at once.

"We are here now, but this place has not longer. We must leave."

Panic. Grief. The manifold minds cradled each other in comfort. The unknown yawned before them, but the strength welled from Idgi Baba like a dense nectar. From the tear-warbled portals of their thousands of eyes, they saw the way forward.

"We will grow a ship. It will be nourished by the bodies of our people as we will be nourished by it. It will sail through the space between stars as a microcosm of this world. You all already know this. You are already on this ship. Please, join with me now."

And a fabric of voices rose in a terrible resonance. For they saw this life was but a cradle, and the stars held their fate. The new realization shocked but also inspired them. For they knew now that no one world could contain them. All worlds were their home. 

And as they looked to the sky, the sprouts of the great ship took hold in the soil. 