Eyes open.  Green orbs embedded with a black cross made of tension.  The air hangs still, breathless, captivated by the sudden awareness.  The cross shifts imperceptibly to a figure eight, and the world perceived by those green orbs shifts along with it.  All things straight become connected, all dangling ends merge with one another and let the unfrozen dark suchre flow through those veins of black.

A shift of the head sends all the features of the world cascading in a coordinated dance, tumble over one another like playful beads.  A sudden depth clarifies the chaos, identifies the various strokes and contours as a coherent tapestry of distances.  An endless variety of greens untangle themselves from each other, become distinct and unique and embedded in a larger pattern of unhidden relationship.  All at once, the green orbs snap into focus and send a charge of reality radially outward, a nova propagating tangibility at the speed of light.  The wake of that eruption is an invisible growing sphere emitting to the very corners of perceptible existence.

The figure eights become circles, then three parallel lines of equal length.  The caterpillar is awake.

"I know you" says the world to the caterpillar.  A tremor wave travels down its green length, uniting the components of its body with messages of awareness.  The leaves sway and flutter as a calm breeze gives life to their flatness.

"You are only leaves" says the caterpillar to the world, not yet aware of the great fullness of the sky above it.  "I somehow know your tastiness, though I have yet to taste you".  The world is suddenly a terrifyingly tasty place.  

The world only smiles.  It does not correct the caterpillar.  Yet.  It gazes upon the caterpillar with a patience and benevolence it cannot resist.  In its sublime creations it finds a spark and satisfaction of the unpredictability of volition.  

The caterpillar ripples its host of appendages, incoherently at first, then with coordination.  It lurches forward, tearing itself out of its cradle of immobility, leaving flaps of space dangling behind it.  Fireworks of pleasure innervate the pathways that join its otherwise disparate limbs.  They forge their first agreement to communicate, to let each others intentions flow unhindered so that the fire of motion may nourish their gelatinous membrane.  The feedback between the rippling dance of limbs gains momentum, fuses into a macro engine of focused advance until the entire bulk of the great form of caterpillar is hurtling slowly across the ridged tesselation of the branch underneath.  

Before it, leaf.  Succulent leaf.  The leaf engulfs the caterpillar before it even realizes it has arrived, the sudden embrace overwhelming in its transcendent fullness.  Its mouth wide open, the juicy fibers resist then burst, dribbling green fluid down its incising teeth and vibrating jaw.  Munch munch munch.  The caterpillar cannot even breath its fulfillment is so great.  The three parallel lines melt into spirals, and its jaws continue to oscillate long after the leaf has been reduced to so much mulch.  The caterpillar's arms encircle the surprise of the empty stem, which was certain just a moment ago of its purpose, which continues fruitlessly to nourish a leaf that no longer exists.  The slumber of the caterpillar slips into completion, and the green orbs melt back into sealing.  

The world gazes at the contentment of the caterpillar with a kind of wistful bemusement.  It too knows the acute satisfaction of a single leaf, while simultaneously beholding all leaves in their uniqueness and inseparability.  An inseparability they share with the now slumbering caterpillar.

----------------------------------

Eyes open.  The green orbs holding thin pinpricks of black, radiating outward in all directions.  Slowly these pinpricks merge into overlapping triangles, and the world appears as a collection of angles and points.  Everything has too much focus, is too painfully clear, and the bleary membrane of the caterpillar's eyes retreats in shock.  

The subtlety of green is shifting, the almost imperceptible contrast between one green and another blossoms into a sharp distinction.  Subtleties between the shades amplify, take on an electric character, bristle in comparison to one another.  Suddenly the gulf between one green and another is as wide as bright yellow and deep purple.  Orange and silver.  The tapestry of leaves becomes a kaleidoscope of color, a rainbow of majesty and depth.  Dazzled, the triangles separate into a nesting of concentric circularity.  

Tastiness and color are inseparable to the caterpillar.  The range of tastiness has multiplied before its eyes.  Behind the spectrum of succulence the world bares its teeth with eyes of fire.  

The caterpillar projects itself into the mosaic of flavor, isolating a far off shade of especially delicious purple.  The radiating lines of the branch below it guide it on, until it reaches a point of narrowing where the branch itself disappears into nothingness.  The scale of the branch and its lines of radiance wither out of existence.  The caterpillar feels a dizzying sway as the branch bobs under its weight.  Fixated on the distant purple, the caterpillar feels its first sense of loss and a kind of suffocating absence of power.  Rejecting this, it hurls itself off of that vanishing point, and becomes a thing unrooted, floating.  The rush of features ends abruptly as it lands on another branch possessing a new, spiraling pattern of radiance.  

The memory of purple overwhelms the caterpillar, sending it staggering towards the direction the branch is thickening.  The layers of branch tumble over one another, a frozen and geometric waveform caught in half tumult.  The branch merges with the great tower of the trunk, a massive vertical avenue of geometry, projecting endlessly above and below this terminal point of joining.  Its magnitude is inconceivable to the caterpillar, whose awe flows up that immense face and is swallowed by the intricate twisting of bark.

The caterpillar begins its climb.

----------------------------------------

Before the caterpillar stands a temple of color.  These are not leaves, they are layers upon layers of mesmerizing texture, a spiral unfolding of delicate structure within structure.  The veins of these layers pulse with flowing nectar, and sheets of pungence drift from the powdery nodes of its nested surfaces.  A dancing fabric of beauty and scintillating essence permeate the air surrounding this temple, and the rapture paralyzes the caterpillar, reaches within it and turns it inside out and inside in in a hypnotic cycle of transformation.  

The caterpillar has found a flower.  It stands as a bewildering schism between the caterpillar and anything it is able to know.

The yearning within threatens to erupt.  The caterpillar becomes aware of how thin and insignificant its tiny membrane is before this monstrosity of awe.  Its eyes multiply until they cover every surface of the caterpillar's body.  The tapestry of eyes all gaze astonished at the ever unfurling layers revealing before them.  A hidden glow has transfixed every sense within every molecule of the caterpillar and holds it, unyielding.  

Even as it reaches forth to devour this enormity it knows it is defeated.  Until now the caterpillar has understood the world through devouring or walking upon.  The lack of suitable orientation to this sacred entity is felt as a stabbing pain in its heart.  The glowing brilliance emanating from the core of that sanctum provokes something strong and intangible deep within the caterpillar, a place it was not even aware existed, a depth that speaks of as yet hidden and unknown profundity within it.  In the face of this overwhelming craving it shrinks in failure.  It knows the glowing essence oozing forth from the latent core of the flower is vital yet unreachable.  The anguish plunges the caterpillar into a darkness from which it cannot emerge.

-----------------------------------------

The flow of geometry beneath, facet over facet inside facet.  The black tendrils in the green orbs peacefully echo this lattice.  Appendage over appendage, a silent hypnosis of traversion.  

A sudden awareness of duplication, a shimmering mirror before it.  The caterpillar exists in two places at once.  The shock of seeing itself gaze back at itself, this dual gaze a laser binding it in place, linking its eyes within to its eyes without.  In this channel between eyes, where seeing sees seeing seeing its own sight, the layers recede into an infinite regress merging into a tunneling fixation.  The black tendrils become diamonds within diamonds, simultaneously snapping into shape in the mirrored eyes before it.  Time stops.  

The caterpillar draws back, seeking strength before this mystery.  Its double draws back in tandem.  They freeze.  Staring.

A prickling warmth flows from its head back through its length, activating every segment in turn, turning each one by one into a glowing nodule of anticipation.  

Finally, the symmetry is broken.  The other caterpillar shifts to the side, and the mirror is shattered.  The otherness is recognized, and the reflection is replaced by an extreme sense of alien.  This is not the caterpillar, but an Other.  It is the caterpillar but not the caterpillar.  It has its own thoughts, its own reactions, which before were in total synchrony, but which now are brazenly independent.  The caterpillar bares its teeth in a silent yowl, a challenge, and the Other does the same.  They snake their heads from side to side, opposing and sizing, and each takes a step backwards.  Mandibles flaring, step by step, they retreat from each other, and this strange twin melts into the geometrical tesselation of the shared branch.  

The Other relents first, and turns to go.  The caterpillar watches curiously as the Other undulates away, rippling in momentum.  Incisors still cycling, the caterpillar stands down.  Such a strange encounter, to see itself from without.  To see itself walk away, to become its own experience of the world.  Nothing can join this gulf.  They are one and yet unreachable between them.  

It is at this point that the world, never one to miss an opportunity, pulls back the veil of isolation from the caterpillar.  Behold!  Your brethren.

And the caterpillar stands aghast as the branches around it writhe with motion and life.  All around it, leaves are being devoured.  All around, the wave motion of foot after foot, segment after segment rising and falling, the accordion oscillation of locomotion amplified as a thousand fragments in every direction.  The diamonds retreat into a kaleidoscope of shifting strands, attempting to witness the entirety and failing, a perpetual collapse of comprehensibility.

The trees are alive.  I am everywhere.  I am everything.  

Its trembling mandibles could not close.

--------------------------------------------------------------